In this lecture we will learn about transitions and see SS transitions allow us to smoothly change a
property value over a specified duration of time.
There are two requirements in order for us to create a CSSA transition.
One is that we need to specify the property we want to apply the transition to.
The other is that we need to specify the duration of the transition or the time it will take the property
to change from one value to another.
If we don't specify a duration the transition will not work.
The transition property allows us to specify the property to transition and the amount of time it will
take to make the transition.
Let's look at an example.
First we will specify a development that will have a height width and background color.
Next we will use the hover selector to change the divs style when we hover over it lets increase the
height of the div when we hover over it with our cursor.
Then we will go to the web browser and write our code.
If you hover over the green square with your mouse you will notice that the height instantly changes
from 200 pixels to 400 pixels.
But what if we wanted to change the height gradually we could use the transition property.
Let's jump back to the editor and see how we would implement this property by giving the transition
property values of height and 3 seconds we are telling it to transition any change to the height property
over a duration of three seconds.
Let's jump to the web browser and run our code.
Now if we hover over the Green Square there will be a smooth transition from a height of 200 pixels
to a height of 400 pixels.
Then we will go back to the editor.
We can also transition an object's color safe for instance we wanted to change the background color
of our object from green to red.
We could add a transition to the background color property.
Now we can add a new background color of red when the user hovers over the div..
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see the background color transitions from green
to red over the specified period of three seconds.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also transition multiple properties at once.
For example if we want to change the background color and height of our div when the user hovers over
it we need to putting the new height for when the user hovers over the square.
We also need to add this transition to the transition property to see the result of these changes.
Let's run our code in the browser as you can see the heightened background color gradually transitioned
over a period of three seconds when we hover over this square with our mouse.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also specify a delay for our transition.
The delay is the amount of time that will pass before the transition is started.
We can add a delay to our transition using the transition delay property adding a transition delay of
1 second will delay our transition from starting until 1 second after we hover over our object.
Let's run our code as you can see there is a 1 second delay before the transition takes effect when
we hover over the element with our mouse.
Let's jump back to the editor
aside from the shorthand transition property there are also the transition property and transition duration
properties that we can use to specify the property and duration of the transition.
For example instead of specifying a transition of background color three seconds using the transition
property we can specify a transition property of background color and its transition duration of three
seconds the transition timing function property allows us to specify that each type or speed curve for
the transition a speed curves how the speed has changed as the animation plays.
Animations can start slow and then get faster move at a constant speed the whole time etc..
The default value for this property is a value of ease where the transition will start slow speed up
and then end slow.
Let's run our code and see the transition timing function in action.
As you can see the transition starts slow speeds up and then ends swell.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
If we want to have the transition maintain a constant speed the whole time we can assign this property
a value of linear.
Let's change the value of our transmission timing function property to linear and then run our code
when we mouseover the square.
You will notice that the transition maintains a constant speed.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example of value of ease in means that the transition
will have a slow start.
Let's give our transition a timing function of ease in and then run our code in the browser as you can
see our transition starts out slow and then speeds up.
Thanks to our ease and timing function.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
A value of ease out means that the transition will have a slow and let's give our transition timing
function property value of ease out and then run our code in the browser as you can see our transition
starts out fast and then slows down.
Thanks to our ease out timing function in the next lecture we were learn about the animation properties
that CSSA gives us access to.